[docs][firebase] add RN Firebase migration guide (#19398)
expo/expo: docs/pages/guides/migrating-to-react-native-firebase.mdx

---
title: Migrating from Expo Firebase to React Native Firebase
---

import { Terminal } from '~/ui/components/Snippet';

> The `expo-firebase-analytics` and `expo-firebase-recaptcha` packages allowed the use of some Firebase features on Classic Builds, Expo Go, and Expo for Web, but developers often encountered version conflicts when trying to use them alongside the rest of the Firebase suite. With EAS Build and Development Builds, it is much easier to use [React Native Firebase](https://rnfirebase.io/) in your entire development workflow, so these packages have been deprecated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `expo-firebase-analytics` and `expo-firebase-recaptcha` packages allowed the use of some Firebase features on Classic Builds, Expo Go, and Expo for Web, but developers often encountered version conflicts when trying to use them alongside the rest of the Firebase suite. With EAS Build and Development Builds, it is much easier to use [React Native Firebase](https://rnfirebase.io/) directly in your entire development workflow, so these packages have been deprecated.
```

In this guide, we will migrate from the Expo Firebase packages to React Native Firebase by:
- Replacing the Expo Firebase packages with their React Native Firebase equivalents
- Replacing the use of Expo Go for testing with a development build customized to your project's needs

> - Testing the updated code on the development build

Reviewer: @tcdavis what's our canonical language for referring to / branding Dev Client? We should use the same terminology here both to piggy back on existing familiarity but also to buttress the DevClientNameHere* brand? 

(*Sorry, I looked on https://expo.dev/tools to see what we're using but realized it hasn't joined that fam yet)

Author: +1 to this question! I do see "Dev Clients" in the glossary (https://docs.expo.dev/workflow/glossary-of-terms/#dev-clients) and we call it that on Discord, etc, but searching "Development Builds" gets you to best place to get the whole rundown on how to build one.

> - Replacing the use of Expo Go for testing with a development build customized to your project's needs
> - Testing the updated code on the development build

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- - Replacing the use of Expo Go for testing with [Development Builds](/development/introduction/) customized to your project's needs
- Testing the updated code on Development Builds
```

I think we should highlight Development Builds since that is the terminology we currently use across docs (at least in most places I'm aware of and for consistency reasons) and also add a link to their docs.

> > **Note:** These instructions assume you have already been successfully using the Expo Firebase packages. If you're adding Firebase to your app for the first time, follow our [Using Firebase](/guides/using-firebase) guide.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> **info** These instructions assume you have already been successfully using the Expo Firebase packages. If you're adding Firebase to your app for the first time, see [Using Firebase](/guides/using-firebase) guide.
```

We don't have to explicitly call it a "Note". I know we do at some places right now but with new callouts, I'm trying to replace that and try to be consistent.

## Install React Native Firebase
Run the following commands to remove `expo-firebase-analytics` and install the React Native Firebase packages:

<Terminal cmd={[
'# Remove Expo Firebase packages',
'$ yarn remove expo-firebase-analytics',
'',
'# Install RN Firebase, etc.',
'$ yarn add @react-native-firebase/app @react-native-firebase/analytics'
]} />

> If you are using [Expo Prebuild](/guides/adopting-prebuild) (also known as Managed Workflow) and building your app for iOS, install the `expo-build-properties` plugin and apply the following configuration to your [Expo config]() file.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you are using [Expo Prebuild](/guides/adopting-prebuild) (also known as Managed Workflow) and building your app for iOS, install the `expo-build-properties` plugin and apply the following configuration to your [Expo config](/workflow/configuration/) file.
```

> If you are using [Expo Prebuild](/guides/adopting-prebuild) (also known as Managed Workflow) and building your app for iOS, install the `expo-build-properties` plugin and apply the following configuration to your [Expo config]() file.

Author: As I recall the new term for "managed workflow" was "using prebuild", as you're depending on EAS Build to run the prebuild step for you on each build to sync your config. If you have native project files (by "ejecting" or running prebuild one time and committing the files), EAS Build will skip the prebuild step, as it will assume your committed native project files shouldn't be overwritten.

My thinking on calling out "managed workflow" is that folks using this migration guide might still be working their way over to this new world with its new terms, perhaps even not being far removed from using classic builds.

Whatever the right terms are, I think at this point it makes sense to highlight the fork in the road depending on whether you're (what we used to call) "managed" or "bare," for the user who might be using Expo Go with Bare Workflow.

<Terminal cmd={["$ npx expo install expo-build-properties"]} />

> #### Example app.json with config plugin
> 
> ```json
> {
>   "expo": {
>     "plugins": [
>       [
>         "expo-build-properties",
>         {
>           "ios": {
>             "useFrameworks": "static"
>           }
>         }
>       ]
>     ]
>   }
> }
> ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Add Config plugin to Expo config file

In the Expo config file, add add `expo-community-flipper` to the `plugins` array with the following configuration:

```json app.json
{
  "expo": {
    "plugins": [
      [
        "expo-build-properties",
        {
          "ios": {
            "useFrameworks": "static"
          }
        }
      ]
    ]
  }
}
```
```

This seems like a step rather than an example.

> If you are using the Bare Workflow, follow [React Native Firebase's installation instructions](https://rnfirebase.io/#bare-workflow).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you are using the Bare Workflow, see [React Native Firebase's installation instructions](https://rnfirebase.io/#bare-workflow).
```

## Update analytics requests

> Firebase Analytics requests in React Native Firebase are almost the same- mostly, they are just imported a little differently. Update your code as shown here:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Firebase Analytics requests in React Native Firebase are almost the same- mostly, they are imported a little differently. Update your code as shown here:
```

```diff
// update imports
- import * as Analytics from "expo-firebase-analytics";
+ import analytics from "@react-native-firebase/analytics";

// update each request to analytics
- Analytics.logEvent("test_analytics_event", {
-  additionaParam: "test",
- });
+ analytics().logEvent("test_analytics_event", {
+  additionaParam: "test",
+ });
```

`logEvent` is asynchronous, so be sure to use `await` in front of the function call if you are using it in an `async` function.

## Creating a development build

> If you have previously used Expo Go for development and testing, at this point, you will need to migrate to a [development build](https://docs.expo.dev/development/introduction/#from-expo-go-to-development-builds), as Expo Go does not include the native code used in React Native Firebase. A development build supports the same workflows as Expo Go, allowing you to develop from your local machine or test updates via a QR code, except it is compatible with all of the native code you include in your standalone app.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you have previously used Expo Go for development and testing, at this point, you will need to migrate to a [Development Build](/development/introduction/#from-expo-go-to-development-builds), as Expo Go does not include the native code used in React Native Firebase.
```

I think we can avoid the description of Development Build here. Linking to the Development Build docs is enough in this case as to find out more about what is a Development Build.

[Follow these instructions for creating a development build](https://docs.expo.dev/development/getting-started/). Once you are finished, you should have an **eas.json** file that includes a build profile that looks like this:

> ```
> {
>   "build": {
>     "development": {
>       "developmentClient": true,
>       "distribution": "internal"
>     }
>   }
> }
> ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```json eas.json
{
  "build": {
    "development": {
      "developmentClient": true,
      "distribution": "internal"
    }
  }
}
```

```

> If you wish to run a development build on an iOS simulator instead of a device, your profile may also include:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you wish to run a development build on an iOS simulator instead of a device, your profile may also include:

```

```
{
  "ios": {
    "simulator": true
  }
}
```

> `expo-dev-client` should be present in your **package.json**, as well. Once you run `eas build` with your development build profile and platfrom of choice, you will have an app binary file that you can install on your device or simulator.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`expo-dev-client` should be present in your **package.json**. Once you run [`eas build`](/build/#running-a-build) with your Development Build [profile](/build/eas-json/#build-profiles) and platform of choice, you will have an app binary file that you can install on your device or simulator.
```

I think we should link here on how to get that binary to install on devices or simulators.

> If you are already using a development build, just rebuild your app, as your native code dependencies have changed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you are already using a development build, rebuild your app, as your native code dependencies have changed.
```

## Test your changes

> Test your changes locally on your development build by running

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Test your changes locally on your development build by running:

```

<Terminal cmd={[
'npx expo start --dev-client'
]} />

> Then follow the prompts on the terminal to run it on your simulator, or scan the QR code to run it on your device. Try an action that will register a Firebase Analytics event. Note that it may take a few minutes for events to show up in the Firebase Console.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

Then follow the prompts on the terminal to run it on your simulator, or scan the QR code to run it on your device. Try an action that will register a Firebase Analytics event. Note that it may take a few minutes for events to show up in the Firebase Console.
```

## Conclusion

> Now that you have your own development build, you can use any of the many React Native Firebase packages in your development and testing workflow. Not only that, but you're only minutes away from adding [any additional native functionality you'd like](https://docs.expo.dev/development/getting-started/#customizing-your-runtime).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

Now that you have your own development build, you can use any package from React Native Firebase library in your development and testing workflow. You're only minutes away from adding [any additional native functionality you'd like](/development/getting-started/#customizing-your-runtime).
```

## Other migration scenarios

### Analytics for Expo for web

> React Native Firebase only supports iOS and Android. If you previously used `expo-firebase-analytics` to send events from an Expo for web client, you will need to use the Firebase JavaScript SDK. In, the Firebase Console, go to Project Settings, and then your web app, and copy the code under "SDK setup and configuration." Then you can switch between React Native Firebase and Firebase JS requests using the `Platform` component:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
React Native Firebase only supports iOS and Android. If you previously used `expo-firebase-analytics` to send events from an Expo for web client, you will need to use the Firebase JavaScript (JS) SDK. In the Firebase Console, go to Project Settings, and then your web app, and copy the code under "SDK setup and configuration." You can switch between React Native Firebase and Firebase JS requests using the `Platform` component:

```

Should we add an instruction here on how to install Firebase JS SDK? Or may be we can link here as a note on how to do it and configure from "Using Firebase" guide that I am working on.

> ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```js
```

import { Platform } from 'react-native';
// for native
import analytics from "@react-native-firebase/analytics";
// for web
import { initializeApp } from "firebase/app";
import { getAnalytics } from "firebase/analytics";

// configure and initialize Firebase for web (copy this from the Firebase Console Project Settings for the exact values)

const firebaseConfig = {
  apiKey: 'api-key',
  authDomain: 'project-id.firebaseapp.com',
  databaseURL: 'https://project-id.firebaseio.com',
  projectId: 'project-id',
  storageBucket: 'project-id.appspot.com',
  messagingSenderId: 'sender-id',
  appId: 'app-id',
  measurementId: 'G-measurement-id',
};

const app = initializeApp(firebaseConfig);
const webAnalytics = getAnalytics(app);

// later, when calling analytics...

if (Platform.OS === 'web') {
  webAnalytics.logEvent("test_analytics_event", {
    additionaParam: "test",
  });
} else {
  analytics().logEvent("test_analytics_event", {
    additionaParam: "test",
  });
}
```

### Migrating from expo-firebase-recaptcha

> This migration guide demonstrates specifically migrating Firebase Analytics usage from `expo-firebase-analytics` to React Native Firebase. If you are migrating from `expo-firebase-recaptcha`, follow the steps above to add React Native Firebase and create a development build, and then consult React Native Firebase's [Phone Authentication](https://rnfirebase.io/auth/phone-auth) guide to configure app verification. With the full native capabilities of React Native Firebase now at your disposal, your app can generally use automatic app verification, which uses reCAPTCHA as a fallback mechanism.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This migration guide demonstrates specifically migrating Firebase Analytics usage from `expo-firebase-analytics` to React Native Firebase. If you are migrating from `expo-firebase-recaptcha`, follow the steps above to add React Native Firebase, create a Development Build, and then see React Native Firebase's [Phone Authentication](https://rnfirebase.io/auth/phone-auth) documentation for configuring app verification. With the full native capabilities of React Native Firebase now at your disposal, your app can generally use automatic app verification, which uses reCAPTCHA as a fallback mechanism.
```

---
title: Migrating from Expo Firebase to React Native Firebase
---

import { Terminal } from '~/ui/components/Snippet';

> The `expo-firebase-analytics` and `expo-firebase-recaptcha` packages allowed the use of some Firebase features on Classic Builds, Expo Go, and Expo for Web, but developers often encountered version conflicts when trying to use them alongside the rest of the Firebase suite. With EAS Build and Development Builds, it is much easier to use [React Native Firebase](https://rnfirebase.io/) directly in your entire development workflow, so these packages have been deprecated.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `expo-firebase-analytics` and `expo-firebase-recaptcha` packages allowed the use of some Firebase features on Classic Builds, Expo Go, and Expo for Web, but developers often encountered version conflicts when trying to use them alongside the rest of the Firebase suite. With EAS Build and development builds, it is much easier to use [React Native Firebase](https://rnfirebase.io/) directly in your entire development workflow, so these packages have been deprecated.
```

In this guide, we will migrate from the Expo Firebase packages to React Native Firebase by:

> - Replacing the Expo Firebase packages with their React Native Firebase equivalents
> - - Replacing the use of Expo Go for testing with [Development Builds](/development/introduction/) customized to your project's needs
> - Testing the updated code on Development Builds

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Replacing the Expo Firebase packages with their React Native Firebase equivalents
- Replacing the use of Expo Go for testing with [development build](/development/introduction/) customized to your project's needs
- Testing the updated code on development build
```

Reviewer 2: Removing the extra `-` and updating instances of "Development Builds" to "development build" for consistency reasons. Earlier, when I reviewed the draft, I wasn't aware of this. Sorry, for the inconvenience caused here 🙏

## Install React Native Firebase
Run the following commands to remove `expo-firebase-analytics` and install the React Native Firebase packages:

<Terminal cmd={[
'# Remove Expo Firebase packages',
'$ yarn remove expo-firebase-analytics',
'',
'# Install RN Firebase, etc.',
'$ yarn add @react-native-firebase/app @react-native-firebase/analytics'
]} />

If you are using [Expo Prebuild](/guides/adopting-prebuild) (also known as Managed Workflow) and building your app for iOS, install the `expo-build-properties` plugin and apply the following configuration to your [Expo config](/workflow/configuration/) file.

<Terminal cmd={["$ npx expo install expo-build-properties"]} />

### Add Config plugin to Expo config file

In the Expo config file, add add `expo-community-flipper` to the `plugins` array with the following configuration:

```json app.json
{
  "expo": {
    "plugins": [
      [
        "expo-build-properties",
        {
          "ios": {
            "useFrameworks": "static"
          }
        }
      ]
    ]
  }

> }

Reviewer 2: It seems backticks (``` ) to end the code block snippet are missing. My previous suggestions might have been a culprit here 🙈 Sorry!

If you are using the Bare Workflow, see [React Native Firebase's installation instructions](https://rnfirebase.io/#bare-workflow).

## Update analytics requests

Firebase Analytics requests in React Native Firebase are almost the same- mostly, they are imported a little differently. Update your code as shown here:

```diff
// update imports
- import * as Analytics from "expo-firebase-analytics";
+ import analytics from "@react-native-firebase/analytics";

// update each request to analytics
- Analytics.logEvent("test_analytics_event", {
-  additionaParam: "test",
- });
+ analytics().logEvent("test_analytics_event", {
+  additionaParam: "test",
+ });
```

`logEvent` is asynchronous, so be sure to use `await` in front of the function call if you are using it in an `async` function.

## Creating a development build

> If you have previously used Expo Go for development and testing, at this point, you will need to migrate to a [Development Build](/development/introduction/#from-expo-go-to-development-builds), as Expo Go does not include the native code used in React Native Firebase.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you have previously used Expo Go for development and testing, at this point, you will need to migrate to a [development build](/development/introduction/#from-expo-go-to-development-builds), as Expo Go does not include the native code used in React Native Firebase.
```

[Follow these instructions for creating a development build](https://docs.expo.dev/development/getting-started/). Once you are finished, you should have an **eas.json** file that includes a build profile that looks like this:

```json eas.json
{
  "build": {
    "development": {
      "developmentClient": true,
      "distribution": "internal"
    }
  }
}

> If you wish to run a [Development Build on an iOS simulator](/build-reference/simulators/) instead of a device, your profile may also include:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you wish to run the [development build on an iOS simulator](/build-reference/simulators/) instead of a device, include the `ios.simulator` in your profile:
```

I think we should describe the property name that is being modified here, as text too.

> ```json eas.json
> {
>   "development": {
>       //..
>       "ios": {
>         "simulator": true
>       }
>     },
> }

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```json eas.json
{
  "development": {
      //..
      "ios": {
        "simulator": true
      }
    },
}
```
```

I think my suggestions yesterday messed the code snippet syntax.

> }

Reviewer 2: Another instance of missing backticks (```) to close the code snippet block.

> `expo-dev-client` should be present in your **package.json**. Once you run [`eas build`](/build/#running-a-build) with your Development Build [profile](/build/eas-json/#build-profiles) and platform of choice, you will have an app binary file that you can install on your device or simulator.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`expo-dev-client` should be present in your **package.json**. Once you run [`eas build`](/build/#running-a-build) with your development build [profile](/build/eas-json/#build-profiles) and platform of choice, you will have an app binary file that you can install on your device or simulator.
```

```js
import { Platform } from 'react-native';
// for native
import analytics from "@react-native-firebase/analytics";
// for web
import { initializeApp } from "firebase/app";
import { getAnalytics } from "firebase/analytics";

// configure and initialize Firebase for web (copy this from the Firebase Console Project Settings for the exact values)

const firebaseConfig = {
  apiKey: 'api-key',
  authDomain: 'project-id.firebaseapp.com',
  databaseURL: 'https://project-id.firebaseio.com',
  projectId: 'project-id',
  storageBucket: 'project-id.appspot.com',
  messagingSenderId: 'sender-id',
  appId: 'app-id',
  measurementId: 'G-measurement-id',
};

const app = initializeApp(firebaseConfig);
const webAnalytics = getAnalytics(app);

// later, when calling analytics...

if (Platform.OS === 'web') {
  webAnalytics.logEvent("test_analytics_event", {
    additionaParam: "test",
  });
} else {
  analytics().logEvent("test_analytics_event", {
    additionaParam: "test",
  });
}
```

### Migrating from expo-firebase-recaptcha

> This migration guide demonstrates specifically migrating Firebase Analytics usage from `expo-firebase-analytics` to React Native Firebase. If you are migrating from `expo-firebase-recaptcha`, follow the steps above to add React Native Firebase, create a Development Build, and then see React Native Firebase's [Phone Authentication](https://rnfirebase.io/auth/phone-auth) documentation for configuring app verification. With the full native capabilities of React Native Firebase now at your disposal, your app can generally use automatic app verification, which uses reCAPTCHA as a fallback mechanism.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This migration guide demonstrates specifically migrating Firebase Analytics usage from `expo-firebase-analytics` to React Native Firebase. If you are migrating from `expo-firebase-recaptcha`, follow the steps above to add React Native Firebase, create a development build, and then see React Native Firebase's [Phone Authentication](https://rnfirebase.io/auth/phone-auth) documentation for configuring app verification. With the full native capabilities of React Native Firebase now at your disposal, your app can generally use automatic app verification, which uses reCAPTCHA as a fallback mechanism.
```

Run the following commands to remove `expo-firebase-analytics` and install the React Native Firebase packages:

<Terminal cmd={[
'# Remove Expo Firebase packages',
'$ yarn remove expo-firebase-analytics',
'',
'# Install RN Firebase, etc.',
'$ yarn add @react-native-firebase/app @react-native-firebase/analytics'
]} />

If you are using [Expo Prebuild](/guides/adopting-prebuild) (also known as Managed Workflow) and building your app for iOS, install the `expo-build-properties` plugin and apply the following configuration to your [Expo config](/workflow/configuration/) file.

<Terminal cmd={["$ npx expo install expo-build-properties"]} />

### Add Config plugin to Expo config file

In the Expo config file, add add `expo-community-flipper` to the `plugins` array with the following configuration:

```json app.json
{
  "expo": {
    "plugins": [
      [
        "expo-build-properties",
        {
          "ios": {
            "useFrameworks": "static"
          }
        }
      ]
    ]
  }
}
```

If you are using the Bare Workflow, see [React Native Firebase's installation instructions](https://rnfirebase.io/#bare-workflow).

## Update analytics requests

> Firebase Analytics requests in React Native Firebase are almost the same- mostly, they are imported a little differently. Update your code as shown here:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Firebase Analytics requests in React Native Firebase are almost the same - mostly, they are imported a little differently. Update your code as shown here:
```

Formatting nit.

```diff
// update imports
- import * as Analytics from "expo-firebase-analytics";
+ import analytics from "@react-native-firebase/analytics";

// update each request to analytics
- Analytics.logEvent("test_analytics_event", {
-  additionaParam: "test",
- });
+ analytics().logEvent("test_analytics_event", {
+  additionaParam: "test",
+ });
```

`logEvent` is asynchronous, so be sure to use `await` in front of the function call if you are using it in an `async` function.

## Creating a development build

If you have previously used Expo Go for development and testing, at this point, you will need to migrate to a [development build](/development/introduction/#from-expo-go-to-development-builds), as Expo Go does not include the native code used in React Native Firebase.

> [Follow these instructions for creating a development build](https://docs.expo.dev/development/getting-started/). Once you are finished, you should have an **eas.json** file that includes a build profile that looks like this:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
[Follow these instructions for creating a development build](/development/getting-started/). Once you are finished, you should have an **eas.json** file that includes a build profile that looks like this:
```

Let's avoid using full links for internal pages.

```json eas.json
{
  "build": {
    "development": {
      "developmentClient": true,
      "distribution": "internal"
    }
  }

> }

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
}
```
```

Add missing close tag for code block.

If you wish to run the [development build on an iOS simulator](/build-reference/simulators/) instead of a device, include the `ios.simulator` in your profile:

```json eas.json
{
  "development": {
      //..
      "ios": {
        "simulator": true
      }
    },
}
```
`expo-dev-client` should be present in your **package.json**. Once you run [`eas build`](/build/#running-a-build) with your development build [profile](/build/eas-json/#build-profiles) and platform of choice, you will have an app binary file that you can install on your device or simulator.

If you are already using a development build, rebuild your app, as your native code dependencies have changed.

## Test your changes

Test your changes locally on your Development Build by running:

<Terminal cmd={[

> 'npx expo start --dev-client'

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
'$ npx expo start --dev-client'
```

Character at the beginning of the Terminal line determines the line appearance.

In this guide, we will migrate from the Expo Firebase packages to React Native Firebase by:
- Replacing the Expo Firebase packages with their React Native Firebase equivalents
- Replacing the use of Expo Go for testing with a [development build](/development/introduction/) customized to your project's needs
- Testing the updated code on your development build

> **info** These instructions assume you have already been successfully using the Expo Firebase packages. If you're adding Firebase to your app for the first time, see the [Using Firebase](/guides/using-firebase) guide.

## Install React Native Firebase
Run the following commands to remove `expo-firebase-analytics` and install the React Native Firebase packages:

<Terminal cmd={[
'# Remove Expo Firebase packages',
'$ yarn remove expo-firebase-analytics',
'',
'# Install RN Firebase, etc.',

> '$ yarn add @react-native-firebase/app @react-native-firebase/analytics'

Reviewer 4: use npm instead - it's the default and anyone using yarn will know how to translate to npm

]} />

> If you are using [Expo Prebuild](/guides/adopting-prebuild) (also known as Managed Workflow) and building your app for iOS, install the `expo-build-properties` plugin and apply the following configuration to your [Expo config](/workflow/configuration/) file.

Reviewer 4: default to explaining the managed approach, add another clause for if you're using bare app

eg:

<img width="910" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/90494/197068675-67257e2d-6a38-4bb2-af83-280d2eefd2b0.png">

https://docs.expo.dev/versions/latest/sdk/tracking-transparency/#configuration-in-appjson--appconfigjs

<Terminal cmd={["$ npx expo install expo-build-properties"]} />

### Add Config plugin to Expo config file

In the Expo config file, add add `expo-community-flipper` to the `plugins` array with the following configuration:

```json app.json
{
  "expo": {
    "plugins": [
      [
        "expo-build-properties",
        {
          "ios": {
            "useFrameworks": "static"
          }
        }
      ]
    ]
  }
}
```

> If you are using the Bare Workflow, see [React Native Firebase's installation instructions](https://rnfirebase.io/#bare-workflow).

Reviewer 4: put this under summary/details as in screenshot above

## Update analytics requests

Firebase Analytics requests in React Native Firebase are almost the same - mostly, they are imported a little differently. Update your code as shown here:

```diff
// update imports
- import * as Analytics from "expo-firebase-analytics";
+ import analytics from "@react-native-firebase/analytics";

> // update each request to analytics

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
// update each `Analytics` reference to call `analytics()`
```

- Analytics.logEvent("test_analytics_event", {
-  additionaParam: "test",
- });
+ analytics().logEvent("test_analytics_event", {
+  additionaParam: "test",
+ });
```

> `logEvent` is asynchronous, so be sure to use `await` in front of the function call if you are using it in an `async` function.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
> Note: `logEvent` is asynchronous, so be sure to use `await` in front of the function call if you are using it in an `async` function.
```

## Creating a development build

> If you have previously used Expo Go for development and testing, at this point, you will need to migrate to a [development build](/development/introduction/#from-expo-go-to-development-builds), as Expo Go does not include the native code used in React Native Firebase.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
If you have been using Expo Go for development and testing, at this point, you will need to migrate to a [development build](/development/introduction/#from-expo-go-to-development-builds), as Expo Go does not include the native code used in React Native Firebase.
```

> [Follow these instructions for creating a development build](/development/getting-started/). Once you are finished, you should have an **eas.json** file that includes a build profile that looks like this:

Reviewer 4: we should delegate this section to a guide about migrating from expo go to development builds so we don't repeat ourselves (i know you tried to avoid doing that too much here but i think it's better to not even try to summarize)

```json eas.json
{
  "build": {
    "development": {
      "developmentClient": true,
      "distribution": "internal"
    }
  }
}
```
If you wish to run the [development build on an iOS simulator](/build-reference/simulators/) instead of a device, include the `ios.simulator` in your profile:

```json eas.json
{
  "development": {
      //..
      "ios": {
        "simulator": true
      }
    },
}
```
`expo-dev-client` should be present in your **package.json**. Once you run [`eas build`](/build/#running-a-build) with your development build [profile](/build/eas-json/#build-profiles) and platform of choice, you will have an app binary file that you can install on your device or simulator.

If you are already using a development build, rebuild your app, as your native code dependencies have changed.

## Test your changes

> Test your changes locally on your Development Build by running:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Test your changes locally on your development build by running:
```

in this doc both "Development Build" and "development build" are used - should say "development build"

<Terminal cmd={[
'$ npx expo start --dev-client'
]} />

Then follow the prompts on the terminal to run it on your simulator, or scan the QR code to run it on your device. Try an action that will register a Firebase Analytics event. Note that it may take a few minutes for events to show up in the Firebase Console.

## Conclusion

Now that you have your own development build, you can use any package from React Native Firebase library in your development and testing workflow. You're only minutes away from adding [any additional native functionality you'd like](/development/getting-started/#customizing-your-runtime).

## Other migration scenarios

### Analytics for Expo for web

React Native Firebase only supports iOS and Android. If you previously used `expo-firebase-analytics` to send events from an Expo for web client, you will need to use the Firebase JavaScript (JS) SDK. In the Firebase Console, go to Project Settings, and then your web app, and copy the code under "SDK setup and configuration." You can switch between React Native Firebase and Firebase JS requests using the `Platform` component:

> ```js

Reviewer 4: I would recommend using platform extensions instead of Platform.OS, so we don't import code that we don't need on web or native
